>> Woodruff: PRO-RUSSIAN
SEPARATISTS STIRRING UNREST IN
EASTERN UKRAINE GAVE NO SIGN
THEY'LL BACK DOWN TODAY, DEFYING
THE DIPLOMATIC DEAL TO CALM THE
UPHEAVAL.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD: A DIFFERENT WAVE OF
POLITICAL TURMOIL-- THIS ONE
LASTING MONTHS IN VENEZUELA,
POSING THE MOST SERIOUS
CHALLENGE TO THAT COUNTRY'S
GOVERNMENT IN MORE THAN A
DECADE.
>> WHAT BEGAN IN JANUARY AS
DEMONSTRATIONS AGAINST RISING
CRIME MUSHROOMED IN FEBRUARY TO
MASSIVE MARCHS.
TODAY THERE REMAIN SMALLER,
FERVENT LOCALIZED PROTESTS IN
NEIGHBORHOODS FORTIFIED WITH
BARRICADES.
>> Woodruff: AND IT'S FRIDAY.
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ARE HERE TO ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: A FINAL DECISION ON
A MUCH-DEBATED EXTENSION OF THE
KEYSTONE OIL PIPELINE HAS BEEN
DELAYED AGAIN, POSSIBLY UNTIL
AFTER THE NOVEMBER ELECTIONS.
THE U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT TODAY
EXTENDED THE FEDERAL REVIEW OF
THE PROJECT INDEFINITELY.
IT CITED A NEBRASKA COURT FIGHT
OVER THE ROUTE.
THE PIPELINE WOULD EXTEND FROM
CANADA TO NEBRASKA, THEN CONNECT
WITH EXISTING LINES CARRYING
CRUDE OIL TO REFINERIES IN
TEXAS.
AN AVALANCHE ON MOUNT EVEREST
KILLED AT LEAST 12 SHERPA GUIDES
TODAY AND LEFT FOUR OTHERS
MISSING.
THE DISASTER WAS THE DEADLIEST
EVER ON THE WORLD'S HIGHEST
PEAK, IN NEPAL.
IT HAPPENED JUST SHY OF 21,000
FEET, ABOUT 8,000 FEET BELOW THE
SUMMIT.
GUIDES HAD GONE OUT EARLY TO FIX
ROPES FOR CLIMBERS, INCLUDING
AUSTRALIAN GAVIN TURNER.
>> THE EXPERIENCE WAS GREAT.
IT WAS GOING WELL, AND THEN
SUDDENLY THERE WAS A HUGE THUD.
WE GOT COVERED BY THIS ENORMOUS
CLOUD OF SNOW AND SNOW DUST,
AND, FOR A FEW SECONDS, I
THOUGHT, WOW, THIS IS GOING TO
TAKE ME OUT.
>> Woodruff: HUNDREDS OF
CLIMBERS AND GUIDES ARE AT
EVEREST'S BASE CAMP, PREPARING
TO SCALE THE PEAK NEXT MONTH,
WHEN THE WEATHER IS MILDEST.
HOPE DIMMED EVEN FURTHER IN
SOUTH KOREA TODAY FOR SOME 270
PEOPLE, MANY OF THEM HIGH SCHOOL
STUDENTS, WHO WERE ON A FERRY
THAT CAPSIZED WEDNESDAY.
RESCUE TEAMS KEPT UP THEIR
EFFORTS EVEN AS THE SHIP SANK
FROM VIEW.
JANE DODGE OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS NARRATES THIS
REPORT.
>> Reporter: A LAST GLIMPSE OF
THE "SEWOL" BEFORE IT
DISAPPEARED BENEATH THE WAVES
EARLY THIS MORNING.
TWO LARGE INFLATABLES NOW MARK
ITS POSITION.
THE RESCUE OPERATION HAS BECOME
MORE OF A RECOVERY PROCESS AS
BODIES ARE BROUGHT ASHORE.
THERE HAS BEEN PROGRESS OF
SORTS.
DIVERS MANAGED TO GAIN ENTRY TO
PART OF THE VESSEL.
>> TWO DIVERS OPENED THE DOOR OF
THE CARGO DEPARTMENT AND WENT
IN.
THEY DIDN'T FIND ANY SURVIVORS.
>> Reporter: ANGER AT THE SOUTH
KOREAN AUTHORITIES ONCE AGAIN
BOILED OVER TODAY.
ORIGINALLY TOLD THEIR CHILDREN
WERE SAFE, FAMILIES NOW WAIT TO
HEAR THEIR FATE, AWARE TIME IS
AGAINST THEM.
>> ( translated ): THEY HAVE TO
HURRY.
>> Reporter: THE CAPTAIN IS
BELIEVED TO BE ONE OF THE GROUP
SEEN LEAVING THE SHIP BEFORE IT
CAPSIZED.
HERE, HE'S WRAPPING HIMSELF IN A
BLANKET.
LEE JOON SEOK AND TWO OTHER
MEMBERS OF THE CREW HAVE NOW
BEEN ARRESTED.
IT EMERGED TODAY HE WASN'T AT
THE WHEEL WHEN THE VESSEL
STARTED TO LIST.
MOST ON BOARD WERE SCHOOL
CHILDREN.
THE TEACHER IN CHARGE HAVE BEEN
FOUND IN THE GYM WHERE PARENTS
WAITED FOR NEWS.
IN A SUICIDE NOTE, HE SAID HE
COULDN'T LIVE FOR HIMSELF AND
ASKED HIS ASHES BE SCATTERED AT
THE SITE OF THE TRAGEDY.
INVESTIGATORS NOW BELIEVE AN
ABRUPT CHANGE OF DIRECTION MAY
HAVE CAUSED CARGO TO SHIFT TO
ONE SIDE AND THE FERRY TO TILT
OVER.
BUT IT'S NOT THE ANSWERS
FAMILIES WANT RIGHT NOW; THEY'RE
DESPERATE TO GET THEIR CHILDREN
BACK.
>> Woodruff: FOR NOW, THE
CONFIRMED DEATH COUNT STANDS AT
28.
A POWERFUL EARTHQUAKE SHOOK
CENTRAL AND SOUTHERN MEXICO
TODAY, BUT THERE WERE NO REPORTS
OF MAJOR DAMAGE.
THE EPICENTER WAS NORTHWEST OF
THE PACIFIC RESORT OF ACAPULCO,
BUT THE QUAKE WAS FELT IN MEXICO
CITY, AS WELL.
THE SHAKING LASTED ABOUT 30
SECONDS AND SENT PEOPLE RUNNING
INTO THE STREETS.
THE U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY SAID
IT REGISTERED A 7.2 MAGNITUDE.
AROUND THE WORLD, CHRISTIANS
COMMEMORATED THE CRUCIFIXION OF
JESUS ON THIS GOOD FRIDAY.
IN JERUSALEM, THOUSANDS OF
PILGRIMS LINED THE COBBLESTONE
STREETS OF THE OLD CITY.
SOME CARRIED WOODEN CROSSES,
TRACING THE TRADITIONAL ROUTE
THAT JESUS WALKED.
AND IN THE PHILIPPINES, SOME
PEOPLE HAD THEMSELVES NAILED TO
CROSSES DESPITE THE CATHOLIC
CHURCH'S EFFORTS TO DISCOURAGE
THE RITE.
THERE'S A NEW WARNING ON
MARIJUANA EVEN AS CITIES AND
STATES MOVE TO DECRIMINALIZE IT.
A STUDY OF YOUNG ADULTS FINDS
EVEN CASUAL USE OF POT MAY HARM
PARTS OF THE BRAIN THAT CONTROL
EMOTION AND MOTIVATION.
IT'S UNCLEAR IF THE DAMAGE CAN
BE REVERSED.
THE STUDY WAS DONE AT HARVARD
AND NORTHWESTERN MEDICAL SCHOOLS
AND MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL
HOSPITAL.
IT'S BEING PUBLISHED IN THE
"JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE."
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
RUSSIA-LEANING SEPARATISTS DEFY
A DEAL TO DEESCALATE THE UKRAINE
CRISIS;
ONE RANCHER'S STANDOFF WITH THE
GOVERNMENT OVER LAND AND CATTLE;
THE MONTHS-LONG WAVE OF
POLITICAL UNREST IN VENEZUELA;
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS ON
THE WEEK'S NEWS;
PLUS, REMEMBERING ONE OF LATIN
AMERICA'S LITERARY GIANTS.
DESPITE THURSDAY'S SURPRISE
AGREEMENT BY THE U.S., RUSSIA,
UKRAINE, AND THE EUROPEAN UNION
TO DE-ESCALATE TENSIONS IN
EASTERN UKRAINE, THERE'S LITTLE
EVIDENCE THAT ANY OF THE TERMS
OF THE DEAL ARE TAKING HOLD IN
THE COUNTRY.
LINDSEY HILSUM OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS IS IN DONETSK
AND FILED THIS REPORT.
>> Reporter: HE WAS TIDYING UP,
NOT TEARING DOWN HIS BARRICADE,
THE MAN IN THE "WORLD OF TANKS"
T-SHIRT.
HE AND HIS FRIENDS HAVE NO
INTENTION OF HANDING BACK THE
ARMORED VEHICLE THEY SEIZED FROM
UKRAINIAN TROOPS.
IN FACT, IN SLOVIANSK TODAY, IT
WAS CLEAR THAT NONE OF THE PRO-
SERS WERE GOING
ANYWHERE.
PEOPLE I'VE BEEN TALKING TO SAY
THEY'RE NOT VERY INTERESTED IN
WHAT WAS DECIDED IN GENEVA
YESTERDAY.
AND THEY'RE NOT GOING TO ABANDON
THE MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS THEY'VE
TAKEN OVER OR TAKE DOWN THEIR
BARRICADES UNTIL THE GOVERNMENT
GOES BECAUSE, THEY SAY, "HOW DID
THIS GOVERNMENT IN KIEV GET TO
POWER?
EXACTLY LIKE THIS.
BY STAYING OUT ON THE STREETS."
A UKRAINIAN MIG FIGHTER FLEW
OVERHEAD.
THE AUTHORITIES IN KIEV MAY RULE
THE SKIES, BUT THEY HAVE LITTLE
POWER HERE ON THE GROUND.
>> ( translated ): WE WILL NOT
REMOVE THE BARRICADES UNTIL
THESE JETS AND TANKS HAVE GONE.
THEY'RE THREATENING TO SHOOT US
AND OUR CHILDREN.
>> Reporter: SO, ARE YOU GOING
TO TAKE THESE BARRICADES DOWN,
LIKE THEY SAID YOU SHOULD IN
GENEVA?
>> ( translated ): WE WILL ONLY
GO WHEN PEOPLE ARE LEFT IN
PEACE, WHEN WE HAVE FREEDOM.
>> Reporter: IT WAS THE SAME
STORY IN THE REGIONAL CAPITAL,
WHERE THE LEADER OF THE SELF-
PROCLAIMED DONETSK PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC SAID HE'D ONLY LEAVE
HIS GOVERNMENT BUILDING IF THE
PRESIDENT AND PRIME MINISTER IN
KIEV DID LIKEWISE.
>> ( translated ): THIS IS AN
ABSOLUTELY NOMINAL AGREEMENT,
BUT EVERYONE HAS TO LEAVE THE
BUILDINGS, INCLUDING COMRADES
YATENSIUK AND TURCHYNOV, WHO
ALSO OCCUPY THEIR PLACE AS THE
ILLEGAL RESULT OF A MILITARY
COUP.
AFTER THEY DO, WE WILL AGREE TO
FOLLOW SUIT.
>> Reporter: THEN, PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE YULIA TYMSHENKO CAME
TO TOWN.
>> ( translated ): THE PURPOSE
OF MY VISIT IS TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT UKRAINIANS WHO LIVE IN
DONETSK ARE DEMANDING FROM THE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT.
I'D LIKE TO LISTEN TO THESE
DEMANDS MYSELF AND FIND OUT HOW
SERIOUS THEY ARE, TO FIND A
NECESSARY COMPROMISE BETWEEN
EAST AND WEST THAT WILL ALLOW US
TO UNIFY THE COUNTRY.
>> Reporter: SHE'S NOT MUCH
LOVED HERE, BUT WOULD LIKE TO
BE.
IN PARLIAMENT IN KIEV, THEY WERE
BLAMING RUSSIA FOR EVERYTHING
WHILE ALSO TRYING TO SOUND
CONCILIATORY, HOPING TO HANG ON
FOR THE ELECTIONS IN A MONTH'S
TIME.
THE TENSION HAS, TO SOME EXTENT,
ABATED IN EASTERN UKRAINE, BUT
NOTHING'S RESOLVED AND THE
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV SEEMS
POWERLESS TO CHANGE THAT.
>> Woodruff: FOR MORE ON
UKRAINE, I SPOKE TO PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR, BEN RHODES, A SHORT
TIME AGO.
BEN RHODES, WELCOME.
AS WE JUST HEARD IN THAT REPORT,
A NUMBER OF THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
OCCUPYING THESE BUILDINGS IN
EASTERN UKRAINE SAY THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO LEAVE, THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO GIVE THEM UP.
DOES THAT UNDERCUT THE DEAL THAT
WAS REACHED YESTERDAY IN GENEVA?
>> WE BELIEVE THE RUSSIAN
GOVERNMENT HAS A TREMENDOUS
AMOUNT OF INFLUENCE WITH AT
LEAST A PORTION OF THESE
PROTESTERS.
WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE THEM USE
ALL THEIR INFLUENCE, THEIR
PUBLIC STATEMENTS, PRIVATE
COMMENTS TO ENCOURAGE THESE
PROTESTERS TO LEAVE THESE
BUILDINGS, TO DISARM.
THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT IS
KEEPING ITS END OF THE BARGAIN,
TOOK STEPS TOWARD PASSING AN
AMNESTY LAW AND WE'LL BE
WATCHING THIS TO SEE IF THE
RUSSIANS ARE USING INFLUENCE AND
IF THE PROTESTERS ARE PULLING
BACK.
>> Woodruff: EVEN IF SOME OF
THE PROTESTERS LISTEN TO MOSCOW,
THERE ARE STILL OTHERS WHO SAY
THEY'RE UKRAINIAN AND THEY DON'T
RESPECT THE GOVERNMENT IN KIEV
AND THEY'RE NOT BUDGING, NO
MATTER WHAT MOSCOW TELLS THEM.
>> WHAT WE SEE IS ACTUALLY THE
VAST MAJORITY OF THE UKRAINIAN
PEOPLE, INCLUDING A MAJORITY OF
PEOPLE IN THE EAST DO SUPPORT
THE UNITY OF UKRAINE AND THE
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV, AND THERE'S
A WAY TO ADDRESS THE CONCERNS OF
SOME OF THOSE MINORITY
POPULATIONS INCLUDING ETHNIC
RUSSIAS WHICH IS THROUGH A
CONSTITUTIONAL REFORM PROCESS
AND THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT
COMMITTED TO DECENTRALIZATION,
RIGHTS OF MINORITIES PROTEG
TICKETED, PROTECTING THE RIGHT
OF RUSSIAN LANGUAGE, SO THERE'S
A PATH FOR THE PROTESTERS TO
HAVE GRIEVANCES MET THROUGH
POLITICS AND NOT ARMED ACTIONS
WE'VE SEEN.
>> Woodruff: ONE OF THE
ARGUMENTS THEY'RE MAKING IS
THEY'RE SIMPLY DOING WHAT THE
PROTESTERS IN KIEV HAVE DONE
WHICH IS TAKE TO THE STREETS,
HOLD THEIR GROUND UNTIL THEY SEE
THE GOVERNMENT DOING WHAT THEY
WANT.
I MEAN, WHY ISN'T THAT A VALID
ARGUMENT?
>> WELL, THERE'S A HUGE
DIFFERENCE HERE, JUDY, WHICH IS
THE FACT IS, IN THE PROTEST IN
KIEV, YOU HAD TENS AND SOME
CASES HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE TAKING TO THE STREETS IN
THESE PROTESTS TO HAVE THEIR
VOICES HEARD.
WE'VE NOT SEEN THAT BY ANY
MEASURE IN THE EAST.
WHAT WE'VE SEEN IS VERY SMALL
PROTESTS IN THE HUNDREDS AND
VERY OR ORGANIZED ARMED GROUPS A
COORDINATED FASHION TAKING OVER
THESE BUILDINGS.
SO THIS HAS NOT BEEN A
GROUNDSWELL OF POPULAR OPINION
MANIFESTED BY TENS OF THOUSANDS
OF PEOPLE TAKING TO THE STREETS.
THITHIS HAS BEEN SMALL NUMBERS F
ARMED MEN TAKING OVER GOVERNMENT
BUILDINGS IN A COORDINATED
FASHION WE BELIEVE CLEARLY WITH
SOME SUPPORT FROM MOSCOW AND
FEELS MUCH MOREE A PLAY TO
DESTABILIZE THE COUNTRY RATHER
THAN A POPULAR MOVEMENT THAT
EMERGED ORGANICALLY AS WAS THE
CASE IN KIEV.
>> Woodruff: EVEN HAVING SAID
THAT, THESE PROTESTERS, AGAIN,
POINTING TO KIEV, IS THE U.S.
SAYING TO THE KIEV GOVERNMENT,
WE WANT THESE PROTESTERS IN KIEO
STAND DOWN?
>> THEY'RE SAYING ALL
PARAMILITARY GROUP SHOULD LAY
DOWN ARMS AND NOT OCCUPY
BUILDINGS, APPLYING TO THE
PROTESTERS IN THE WEST AND EAST.
THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT HAS
TAKEN STEPS TO DISARM EXTREME
NATIONALISTS ENGAGED IN
ACTIVITIES LIKE TAKING OVER
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS IN THE WEST
AS WELL.
THIS APPLIES NOT JUST IN THE
EAST BUT ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
AGAIN, THE GOVERNMENT IN KIEV
HAS MADE THE COMMITMENTS.
PRIME MINISTER YATSENYUK WENT TO
THE EAST TO HAVE DIALOGUE WITH
SOME TO HAVE THE PROTESTERS.
WE BELIEVE THE DIALOGUE IS
IMPORTANT IN UKRAINE AS WELL AS
THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY.
>> Woodruff: BUT IF
UKRAINIANS, IF THE PROTESTERS IN
EASTERN UKRAINE DON'T DO WHAT
THE U.S. IS ASKING, IF RUSSIA
DOESN'T DO WHAT THE U.S. IS
ASKING, THE PRESIDENT AND OTHERS
HAVE SAID THERE WILL BE MORE
CONSEQUENCES.
BUT WHAT WE'VE SEEN SO FAR IS
THAT THE SANCTIONS HAVEN'T
REALLY HAD MUCH OF AN EFFECT ON
MR. PUTIN.
WHAT MAKES THE ADMINISTRATION,
WHAT MAKES THE PRESIDENT THINK
MORE SANCTIONS WILL HAVE AN
EFFECT?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, WE'VE PUT
IN PLACE A SERIES OF SANCTIONS.
WE ALSO HAVE AN EXECUTIVE ORDER
THAT GIVES US BROADER
AUTHORITIES TO TARGET
INDIVIDUALS AND ENTITIES THAT
THEY CONTROL THAT ARE IMPORTANT
TO THE RUSSIAN ECONOMY AND ALSO
POTENTIALLY SECTORS OF THE
RUSSIAN ECONOMY.
WE HAVE SEEN PRESIDENT PUTIN
PAUSE WITH THE FORCES ON THE
BORDER WHERE HE'S PASS BINGED
SIGNIFICANT MILITARY FORCES AND
SEEN THIS DESTABILIZATION TAKING
PLACE IN EASTERN UKRAINE.
WE HAVEN'T SEEN THE WORST CASE
SCENARIO WHICH IS RUSSIANS
COMING ACROSS THE BORDER.
SO THAT IS IN PLACE.
BUT WE HAVE BEEN CLEAR THAT IF
WE CONTINUE THE SEE
DESTABILIZING ACTIVITIES THAT WE
BELIEVE ARE ROOTED IN MOSCOW'S
POLICY, WE'LL MOVE TO ADDITIONAL
SANCTIONS.
AGAIN, IF WE START TO GO AFTER
ADDITIONAL INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE
IMPORTANT IN THE RUSSIAN ECONOMY
AND IMPORTANT TO THE RUSSIAN
LEADERSHIP AS WELL AS THE
COMPANIES AND BANKS THAT THEY
ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR, WE BELIEVE
WE CAN HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT
ON THE RUSSIANS.
IN FACT, WE'VE ALREADY SEEN
THEIR FORECAS T ECONOMY
DOWNGRADED.
CAPITAL FLYING OUT TO HAVE THE
COUNTRY.
SO IT IS HAVING ANF
JUST HOW MUCH DOES ITS HAVE TO
SINK IN FOR THE RUSSIANS TO
CHANGE CALCULUS AND PURSUE THIS
THROUGH POLITICS INSTEAD OF
FORCE.
THAT'S WHAT WE HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO DO THROUGH GENEVA
AND IF WE DON'T SEE THEM FOLLOW
THROUGH WE'LL MOVE TO ADDITIONAL
SANCTIONS.
>> Woodruff: BEN RHODES,
DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR.
THANKS VERY MUCH.
>> GOOD TO BE WITH YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO A STORY THAT
TAKES US OUT TO THE WESTERN
U.S., TO NEVADA, WHERE A
STANDOFF BETWEEN THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT AND A LOCAL CATTLE
RANCHER INVOLVING AN ARMED
MILITIA ALMOST TURNED VIOLENT.
HARI SREENIVASAN IS IN OUR NEW
YORK STUDIO WITH THIS REPORT.
>> Sreenivasan: ARMED MILITIA
MEN, POINTING GUNS AT FEDERAL
OFFICIALS, OVER CATTLE.
FOR MORE THAN 20 YEARS, NEVADA
RANCHER CLIVEN BUNDY HAS REFUSED
TO PAY FEES FOR GRAZING CATTLE
ON PUBLIC LANDS, SOME 80 MILES
NORTH OF LAS VEGAS.
THE U.S. BUREAU OF LAND
MANAGEMENT SAYS BUNDY NOW OWES
CLOSE TO $1 MILLION.
HE SAYS HIS FAMILY HAS USED THE
LAND SINCE THE 1870s.
LAST YEAR, A FEDERAL JUDGE
ORDERED BUNDY TO REMOVE HIS
LIVESTOCK.
HE IGNORED THE ORDER, AND TWO
WEEKS AGO, B.L.M. AGENTS ROUNDED
UP MORE THAN 400 HEAD OF HIS
CATTLE.
LAST WEEKEND, ARMED MILITIA
MEMBERS AND STATES' RIGHT
PROTESTERS SHOWED UP TO
CHALLENGE THE MOVE.
>> I CAME HERE BECAUSE I DON'T
BELIEVE THE B.L.M. HAS ANY
AUTHORITY, WHATSOEVER.
THEY HAVE NO LAW ENFORCEMENT
AUTHORITY IN CLARK COUNTY, AND
THEY HAVE NO BUSINESS WHATSOEVER
DESTROYING THE PURSUIT OF
HAPPINESS OF ONE OF OUR FRIENDS
AND BROTHERS.
>> Sreenivasan: RATHER THAN RISK
VIOLENCE, THE B.L.M. DID AN
ABOUT-FACE AND RELEASED THE
CATTLE.
BUT THE DUST-UP HAS PUT
LONGSTANDING DISPUTES OVER
WESTERN RANGE RIGHTS SQUARELY IN
THE SPOTLIGHT.
LAST NIGHT, NEVADA DEMOCRATIC
SENATOR HARRY REID BLASTED THE
PROTESTERS.
>> THESE PEOPLE, WHO HOLD
THEMSELVES OUT TO BE PATRIOTS,
ARE NOT.
THEY'RE NOTHING MORE THAN
DOMESTIC TERRORISTS.
AND I THINK WE ARE A COUNTRY
WHERE PEOPLE SHOULD FOLLOW THE
LAW.
>> Sreenivasan: THE B.L.M. NOW
SAYS IT IS PURSUING A PEACEFUL
RESOLUTION THROUGH THE COURTS.
WE'RE JOINED BY BEN BOTKIN FROM
THE LAS VEGAS REVIEW-JOURNAL.
HOW DID THIS ESCALATE INTO THE
STANDOFF IT WAS?
>> WELL, THE ENTIRE SITUATION
LEADING UP TO T STANDOFF TOOK
20 YEARS, WAS 20 YEARS IN THE
MAKING.
YOU HAD A COUPLE OF COURT ORDERS
THAT THE B.L.M. OBTAINED TO
OBTAIN THE CATTLE, WHICH THAT
CAME BECAUSE CLIVEN BUNDY WASN'T
PAYING HIS GRAZING FEES.
BUT IN THE LAST FEW DAYS BEFORE
THE STANDOFF, YOU HAD A BUNCH OF
DIFFERENT TYPES OF GROUPS AND
PEOPLE, EVERYONE FROM GROUPS
THAT CALL THEMSELVES MILITIA TO
SO-CALLED PATRIOT GROUPS AND
OTHERS ACROSS THE COUNTRY GATHER
TOGETHER OVER THE COURSE OF
SEVERAL DAYS LEADING UP TO
SATURDAY, AND AT THAT POINT
SATURDAY THE BUNDY FAMILY TOOK
THE PROTESTERS, WENT UP TO
CORRAL WHERE THE BLM HAD ROUNDED
UP THEIR CATTLELE, AND AFTER A
SHORT AND BRIEF NEGOTIATION AND
STANDOFF, THE BLM DECIDED TO
RELEASE SEVERAL HUNDRED COWS
BACK TO THE FAMILY.
THERE'S NO FORMAL AGREEMENT, BUT
DURING THAT STANDOFF, THERE WERE
GUNS DRAWN FROM BOTH SIDES, SO
RATHER THAN RUN THE RISK OF
BLOODSHED, THE AGENCY,TH
POINT, DECIDED TO RELEASE THE
CATTLE.
>> Sreenivasan: SO HOW MANY
CATTLE ARE WE TALKING ABOUT HERE
IN THEY ROUNDED UP A FEW
HUNDRED?
DID THEY RELEASE THEM ALL BACK?
>> THEY DID RELEASE THEM ALL
BACK.
THEY ROUNDED UP ABOUT 350 TO 400
OR SO OVER THE COURSE OF ABOUT A
WEEK.
IT WAS INTENDED TO BE A
MONTH-LONG ROUNDUP THAT WOULD
HAVE REQUIRED GATHERING A FEW
HUNDRED MORE COWS.
THAT DIDN'T HAPPEN.
THEY STOPPED THE ROUNDUP.
SO THERE'S A LOT OF UNANSWERED
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN NEXT BECAUSE THERE'S NO
FORMAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE BLM
AND THE BUNDIES FOR THE RELEASE
OF THE COWS.
>> Sreenivasan: SO YOU WERE
OUT THERE SEVERAL DAYS IN THE
PAST COUPLE OF WEEKS.
HOW MANY OF THE PEOPLE THAT WERE
OUT THERE TO PROTEST OR TO
PROTECT MR. BUNDY WERE AWARE OF
THE ISSUES WITH THE B.L.M., AND
HOW MANY WERE THERE FOR THEIR
OWN SORT OF PHILOSOPHICAL
PURPOSES, NOT RECOGNIZING THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT?
>> I'D SAY THE VAST MAJORITY WAS
THERE MORE FOR THE BROADER
PHILOSOPHICAL STANCE.
THEY WEREN'T NECESSARILY
FAMILIAR WITH B.L.M. OR RANCHING
ISSUES.
THEY WERE MORE THERE BECAUSE OF
THEIR AGREEMENT WITH MR. BUNDY,
WHO HAS THE EXPRESSED OPINION
THAT THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS
OVERSTEPPING ITS BOUNDS AND
SOMEHOW INFRINGING ON HIS
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS.
SO A LOT OF GROUPS SEIZED ON HIM
AND LOOKED AT HIM AS THE
FIGUREHEAD FOR NOT JUST RANCHING
OR NOT JUST GRAZING BUT JUST
THESE BROADER ISSUES THAT THEY
ADADHERED TO.
>> Sreenivasan: ARE THERE
STILL PROTESTERS OUT THERE?
>> WHEN I WAS OUT THERE A COUPLE
OF DAYS AGO, THERE WERE ABOUT A
COUPLE DOZEN PROTESTERS.
WHAT ONCE NUMBERED IN THE
HUNDREDS IS NOW DOWN TO JUST
HANDFUL.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ARE WE
TALKING ABOUT IN TERMS OF CASH?
HOW MUCH DOES MR. BUNDY ACTUALLY
OWE?
>> ACCORDING TO THE AGENCY, HE
OWES A LITTLE OVER $1 MILLION IN
GRAZING FEES, AND THAT'S A
FIGURE THAT'S ACCUMULATED OVER
THE LAST 20 OR SO YEARS SINCE HE
STOPPED PAYING THEM.
>> Reporter: AND WHAT ABOUT
THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES?
WHAT ARE THEY PLANNING TO DO IN
THE NEXT WEEK OR TWO?
>> WELL, THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES
HAVE NOT GIVEN ANY INDICATION OF
WHAT THEY WILL BE DOING, IF
ANYTHING.
THE LOCAL POLICE WERE AT
SCENE WHERE THE STANDOFF WAS, SO
THAT THEY DID HAVE A HAND IN
HELPING THE EVENT REACH ITS
CONCLUSION.
SO, AT THIS POINT, THINGS HAVE
REALLY BEEN KIND OF IN FLUX.
THE BUNDIES HAVE INDICATED THE
B.L.M. HAS SENT FOUR ASSERTED
LETTERS TO THEM THAT THEY'VE
CHOSEN NOT TO OPEN AT THIS
POINT.
THE B.L.M. HASN'T SAID WHAT'S IN
THOSE LETTERS, SO, AT THIS
POINT, THINGS ARE PRETTY
UNPREDICTABLE AT THIS POINT.
>> Sreenivasan: BEN BOTKIN
FROM THE LAS VEGAS
REVIEW-JOURNAL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: IN MARCH OF LAST
YEAR, THE 14-YEAR RULE OVER
VENEZUELA BY THE CONTROVERSIAL
AND CHARISMATIC HUGO CHAVEZ CAME
TO A DRAMATIC END WHEN THE
LEADER DIED OF CANCER.
HIS HANDPICKED SUCCESSOR,
NICOLAS MADURO, WAS ELECTED
PRESIDENT SOON AFTER.
AS MADURO MARKS THE END OF HIS
FIRST YEAR IN OFFICE TOMORROW,
DIVISIONS HAVE DEEPENED IN A
COUNTRY THAT HAS BECOME VIOLENT
IN RECENT MONTHS.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS.
>> Reporter: LATE LAST WEEK,
AFTER MORE THAN THREE MONTHS OF
SOMETIMES DEADLY STREET PROTESTS
THROUGHOUT VENEZUELA, PRESIDENT
NICOLAS MADURO MET WITH HIS
POLITICAL OPPOSITION.
THE SIX-HOUR TELEVISED SESSION
BROKERED BY THE VATICAN AND
THREE SOUTH AMERICAN FOREIGN
MINISTERS ATTRACTED RECORD
RATINGS ON VENEZUELAN TV,
REFLECTING THE NATION'S ANXIETY
AT THE STREET VIOLENCE THAT
KILLED MORE THAN 40 AND POSED
THE BIGGEST CHALLENTO
GOVERNMENT IN MORE THAN A
DECADE.
THE ALTERNATIVE TO FINDING AN
ACCOMMODATION, SAID, MADURO, IS
A DARK ONE.
>> IMAGINE, IT WOULD BE THE
BEGINNING OF AN ARMED, VIOLENT
CIVIL CONFRONTATION, BLOODY,
BLOODY, AND NO ONE WOULD WIN
ANYTHING.
>> Reporter: WHAT BEGAN IN
JANUARY AS DEMONSTRATIONS
AGAINST RISING CRIME MUSHROOMED
IN FEBRUARY INTO MASSIVE MARCHS
WITH HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
PROTESTING THE SCARCITY OF GOODS
IN SECURITY AND THE ARRESTS OF
DEMONSTRATORS.
TODAY THERE REMAINS SMALLER BUT
FERVENT LOCALIZED PROTESTS IN
NEIGHBORHOODS WITH BARRICADES.
THE TARGET, PRESIDENT MADURO.
MADURO STRUGGLED TO MAINTAIN
CHAVEZ'S AURA BUT IS SWAMPED BY
AN ECONOMIC SLIDE THAT BROUGHT
THIS OIL-RICH COUNTRY 57%
INFLATION AND NEAR EMPTY STORE
SHELVES.
AND A FURTHER EXPLOSION IN
VENEZUELA'S RAMPANT CRIME,
CREATING WHAT THE U.N. SAYS IS
NOW THE SECOND-HIGHEST MURDER
RATE IN THE WORLD.
THIS HAS MADE LIFE UNBEARABLE
FOR 19-YEAR-OLD STUDENT
CHRISTIAN ALEJANDRO MARTINEZ.
HE NEVER PROTESTED BEFORE, BUT
AFTER HAVING HIS HOUSE ROBBED,
CAR KEYS AND CAR STOLEN, HE'S
TAKEN TO THE STREETS.
HE AND FELLOW STUDENTS FEEL
THEIR FUTURE IS SLIPPING AWAY.
>> WE CAN'T SEE IT ON THE
HORIZON.
WE ARE STUDYING, BUT WE DON'T
REALLY KNOW IF WE'RE GOING TO
EVER ACHIEVE OUR CAREERS.
WE DON'T KNOW IF WE'RE GOING TO
GO OUT SOME DAY AT NIGHT AND GET
SHOT AT.
SO HOW CAN YOU LIVE IN THIS
SITUATION?
>> Reporter: AND MARTINEZ HAS
NO FAITH IN MADURO AS HE DID I
CHAAVEZ.
>> I DO BELIEVE THAT HUGO CHAAZ
HAD A PLAN, A PLAN THAT HAD
IDEALS AND A WAY OF THINKING
THAT IT WOULD BE BETTER FOR THE
COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: CHAAVEZ CALLED HIS
PLAN BOLIVAR IN SOCIALISM, THE
GOALS WERE SOCIAL JUSTICE,
EMPOWERING THE POOR WITH
EXPANDED GOVERNMENT SERVICES AND
REDISTRIBUTING VENEZUELA'S VAST
OIL RICHES TO FINANCE
>> THIS IS WHAT CHAAVEZ
REPRESENTED, THIS IS WHAT -- I
THINK HE PUT HIS FINGER ON
LEGITIMATE GRIEVANCES IN
VENEZUELA.
I THINK FOR MADURO AND
FOLLOWERS, THIS IS A REVOLUTION
HE'S COMMITTED TO CONTINUE.
THE PROBLEM IS THIS IS A MODEL
THAT HAS OBVIOUSLY FAILED AND
OBVIOUSLY IS UNABLE TO DELIVER
BASIC GOODS TO PEOPLE, A
REASONABLE ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
WITH SECURITY PROTECTIONS.
>> Reporter: WHY DON'T IT
DELIVERING ANYMORE?
TWO REASONS SAYS FORMER
VENEZUELAN DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR
NOW AT THE CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT
FOR INTENTIONAL PEACE.
>> THE PROBLEM IS THE 21s
21st CENTURY SOCIALISM
REQUIRED TWO THINGS THAT ARE NO
LONGER THERE.
ONE -- -- BASED ON A MODEL OF
ONE PERSON WITH DECISIONS.
IT'S WHAT HAPPENED FOR 14 YEARS.
NOBODY ELSE IS INVOLVED.
>> Reporter: AND CHAAVEZ
DEPENDED ON VENEZUELA'S HUGE OIL
RESERVES THE WORLD'S LARGEST TO
FUND HIS PROGRAMS.
BUT THE MAGGOT OF THAT SECTOR
HAS COST THE COUNTRY'S OIL
INCOME TO SLIP.
>> THE PRODUCTION HAS GONE DOWN.
LACK OF INVESTMENT IN THE OIL
INDUSTRY AGAIN,ATHAAVEZ IS
NOT A MODEL OF INVESTMENT.
IT'S A MODEL OF SPENDING.
>> Reporter: TO TEST THE
PUBLIC'S VIEW OF THIS A
"NewsHour" CREW WENT TO
SAN CRISTOBAL.
>> YOU CANNOT GO OUT ON THE
STREETS AND GET WHAT I WANT TO
FEED MY CHILD.
I ALWAYS HAVE TO STAND IN LINE
AT THE SUPERMARKET THINKING
ABOUT IF I GET BACK HOME ALIVE.
>> Reporter: SHE DOESN'T STAY
LONG AT HER NEIGHBORHOOD'S
BARRICADES.
SHE'S AFRAID TO TAKE HER YOUNG
SON AND HELPS THE PROTESTERS
WITH FOOD AND WATER.
SHE HAS NO CONFIDENCE IN MADURO.
>> MADURO WANTS TO DO THE SAME
WAS HE CAN'T.
HE WANTS TO BE LIKE CHAAVEZ BUT
IS NOT.
>> Reporter: THERE ARE STILL
THOSE STICKING WITH MADURO, LIKE
MARLENE WHO LIVES WITH HER
MOTHER IN CARACAS, AND DEPENDS
ON PROGRAMS.
>> THIS IS A BASIC GROCERY BUT
WITH VERY LOW PRICES.
A PACK OF FLOUR CALLED TWO
BOLIVARS.
ON THE OPEN MARKET, IT'S 35 OR
50.
WHY?
BECAUSE CAPITALISM IS STRUCTURED
IN A WAY THAT WE THE POOR CAN'T
BUY WHAT WE NEED.
>> Reporter: SHE SAYS HER
FAITH IN CHAAVEZ AND MADURO
ENDURES.
>> CHAAVEZ WAS A LEADER.
DID NOT KNOW HOW TO READ, AND
NOW MANY MORE PEOPLE KNOW HOW TO
READ.
THIS IS SOCIALISM, AND CHAAVEZ
TRANSMITTED THIS TO PRESIDENT
MADURO.
MADURO'S MADE MISTAKES.
NOBODY'S PERFECT BUT HE'S TRYING
TO LEAD THINGS IN A POSITIVE
DIRECTION.
>> CHAAVEZ WAS ALWAYS SEEKING
THEIR VOTES.
HE ALWAYS SPENT MONEY BEFORE
ELECTIONS.
THAT IS WHY HE WON.
>> Reporter: 50-YEAR-OLD
CARACAS-BASED ENGINEER EDGAR
RODRIGUES LONGO POSED TO CHAAVZ
CONCEDES HE DID IMPROVE THE
IMAWLT OF LIFE FOR MANY OF
VENEZUELA'S POOR BUT SAYS
SCIENCE OF ECONOMIC IMPLOSION
ARE EVERYWHERE NOW.
WHAT'S MORE, HE SAYS, MADURO
DOESN'T HAVE THE POLITICAL
SKILLS TO HANDLE THE COUNTRY'S
CHANGED CIRCUMSTANCES,
DEMONIZING HIS OPPONENTS OR
THOSE WHO SUGGEST HE SHOULD
CHANGE FORCE.
>> THERE IS A FUTURE IF THE
PRESIDENT RECOGNIZES THE OTHER
POINT OF VIEW, BUT HE SPEAKS
ONLY FOR HIMSELF AND HIS PEOPLE.
WE ARE TALKING FOR THE OTHER
HALF OF VENEZUELA AND THE
PRESIDENT IS IGNORING US.
>> Reporter: THE "NewsHour"
CONTACTED THE VENEZUELAN EMBASSY
IN WASHINGTON FOR AN INTERVIEW
TO EXPLORE THE GOVERNMENT'S
PERSPECTIVE.
WE GOT NO RESPONSE.
EARLIER THIS MONTH, MADURO IN AN
OP ED IN "THE NEW YORK TIMES"
TOOK NO RESPONSIBILITY BUT CAST
BLAME ON CHAAVEZ.
THE ANTI-GOVERNMENT PROTESTS ARE
CARRIED OUT BY PEOPLE IN THE
WEALTHIER SEGMENTS OF SOCIETY
WHO SEEK TO REVERSE THE GAINS OF
THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS THAT HAVE
BENEFITED THE VAST MAJORITY OF
THE PEOPLE, HE WROTE.
NOW IS THE TIME FOR DIALOGUE, WE
HAVE EXTENDED A HAND TO THE
OPPOSITION.
MADURO DIDN'T MENTION HIS
GOVERNMENT JAILED A TOP MEMBER
OF THAT OPPOSITION, A FORMER
MAYOR LOPEZ, FOR CHARGES OF
WHAT'S MORE, STATISTICS DO NOT
BACK UP MADURO'S CLAIM THAT THIS
IS AN UPRISING OF ONLY THE
WEALTHY.
>> VENEZUELA'S NEVER HAD SO MANY
WEALTHY PEOPLE.
VENEZUELA DID NOT HAVE SUCH A
LARGE MIDDLE CLASS AND EVEN THE
ELECTION RESULTS SHOW THAT ABOUT
HALF THE COUNTRY IS AGAINST THE
GOVERNMENT.
THAT MEANS THERE ARE MILLIONS OF
VERY POOR PEOPLE THAT THEY CLAIE
GOVERNMENT CLAIMS TO REPRESENT
THAT ARE TAKING TO THE STREET.
>> Reporter: MICHAEL SHIFTER
THINKS THERE'S A BIT MORE MERIT
TO MADURO'S CHARGE.
>> I THINK THEIR EXPRESSION OF
THE PROFOUND DISCONTENT THAT'S
WIDESPREAD IN VENEZUELA, BUT I
THINK IT'S A MISTAKE TO
INTERPRET THE PROTESTS AS
REFLECTING NECESSARILY THE
MAJORITY OPINION OF
VENEZUELANs.
>> Reporter: THERE APPEAR TO
BE LOW EXPECTATIONS FOR THE
TALKS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND
OPPOSITION.
MADURO DIDN'T EVEN ATTEND THE
MEETING THAT RESUMED THIS WEEK.
BUT IF THEY DON'T PRODUCE ANY
SORT OF RECONCILIATION, WHAT'S
THE ALTERNATIVE?
A SECOND YEAR FOR MADURO AND
POST-CHAAVEZ VENEZUELA THAT IS
WORST THAN THE FIRST.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS-- THAT'S
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELCOME, GENTLEMEN.
SO THE STATE DEPARTMENT, THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION ANNOUNCING,
I GUESS SURPRISING EVERYBODY
TODAY, MARK, WITH THIS
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THEY'RE
DELAYING THE DECISION ON WHAT TO
DO ABOUT EXTENDING THE KEYSTONE
OIL PIPELINE.
THE REACTION IS ALL OVER THE
PLACE.
THE CANADIANS ARE UPSET.
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER SAID
IT'S SHAMEFUL.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL GROUPS ARE
HAPPY.
>> YES, AND I THINK THE LAST
POINT IS THE KEY.
THE PEOPLE WHO CARE MOST
PASSIONATELY AND INTENSELY ABOUT
THE PIPELINE ARE THOSE WHO ARE
OPPOSED TO IT, NOT UNLIKE GUN
CONTROL, EXCEPT ENTIRELY
DIFFERENT CAST OF PEOPLE AND
VOTERS, BUT THE ENVIRONMENTAL
GROUPS ARE -- THEY ARE CHEERED
AND THEY ARE AN IMPORTANT
CONSTITUENCY FOR THE DEMOCRATS
HEADING INTO WHAT LOOKS TO BE A
STORMY 2014 ELECTION, AND I
DON'T THINK THE WHITE HOUSE OR
THE STATE DEPARTMENT, FOR THAT
MATTER, WANTS TO ALIENATE THAT
GROUP AT THIS POINT.
>> Reporter: SO YOU THINK IT'S
PURELY POLITICAL?
LARGELY POLITICAL?
>> SERIOUS CONSIDERATION HERE'S
THAT I'M TOTALLY UNAWARE OF, I'M
SURE, BUT FIRST BLUSH, THAT
WOULD BE MY TAKE.
>> Woodruff: DAVID, HOW DO YOU
READ THIS?
>> SAME.
IT'S BEEN ABOUT SIX YEARS SINCE
THEY HAVE BEEN ENTERTAINING THIS
AND EVERYONE I'VE SPOKEN BE OVER
THAT TIME BELIEVE THAT THEY WANT
TO IMPROVE THIS THING EVENTUALLY
BUT NOT AT POLITICALLY
UNOPPORTUNE TIMES.
NATIONALLY, ABOUT 65% OF
AMERICANS SUPPORT IT AND 22%
OPPOSE IT.
IT'S THE 22% WHO HAPPEN TO BE IN
THE DEMOCRATIC BASE.
>> Woodruff: WELL, WE COULD
TALK ABOUT THIS A LONG TIME BUT
I WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT THE
STORY WE JUST HEARD HARI
REPORTING A FEW MINUTES AGO,
MARK, AND THAT IS NEVADA'S
STANDOFF BETWEEN A CATTLE
RANCHER AND THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT.
HE HAS REFUSED TO PAY HIS
GRAZING FEES OVER THE LAST
SEVERAL DECADES.
THEY'RE SAYING HE OWES SOMETHING
LIKE $1 MILLION.
THERE HAVE BEEN PEOPLE ARMED
STANDING THERE SAYING THAT THESE
FEDERAL AGENTS SHOULDN'T BE
THERE.
DOES THIS SAY SOMETHING ABOUT
WHAT'S GOING ON OUT WEST?
>> IT DOES.
IT'S A REVOLUTION, A REBELLION
STARTED, JUDY, MORE THAN A
GENERATION AGO, NOW.
BUT, I MEAN, YOU KNOW, LOOKING
AT THE EQUITIES OF THE
SITUATION, THIS MAN, MR. BUNDY,
THE A FREE LOADER.
OTHER RANCHERS PAY GRAZING FEES
WHICH ARE NOT OWNERS SO THAT
THEIR CATTLE CAN GRAZE THERE.
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BUREAU
OF LAND MANAGEMENT IS TO MAKE
SURE THAT THAT LAND IS AVAILABLE
FOR THE NEXT GENERATION FOR
MULTI-USES, NOT SIMPLY GRAZING,
BUT FOR OTHERS AS WELL AND
PRESERVATION.
SO I DON'T UNDERSTAND IT.
I GIVE THE FOLKS AT FOX NEWS
GREAT CREDIT.
THIS HAS BEEN AN
ORCHESTRATEDLY-PRODUCED
OPERATION THERE, BUT THEY'VE
TAPPED INTO SOMETHING THAT THERE
ARE SOME PEOPLE WHO ARE JUST
TOTALLY OUTRAGED AT ANYTHING THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT DOES.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF THE
UNITED STATES OWNS 87% OF NEVADA
AND HAS ESSENTIALLY FOR QUITE A
WHILE.
>> ReporterWHILE.
>> Woodruff: SO, DAVID, DOES
THIS MAN HAVE A LEGITIMATE
GRIEVOUS AGAINST THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT?
>> NOT THE WAY HE'S DOING IT.
HE'S SELF-DISCREDITING, THE WAY
HE'S DOING IT YOU FELT GO OUT
WEST AND HEAR GRIEVOUS AGAINST
THE B.L.M., AND I THINK THERE'S
FRUSTRATION WORKING WITH THE
B.L.M.
AND IT COMES IN WAVES.
WE'RE CERTAINLY NOT AT A HIGH
WAVE.
IN THE CLINTON YEARS, YOU HEARD
OF HIGH FRUSTRATION, WHEN THE
REVOLUTION WAS AT ITS PEAK, BUT
NOW YOU HAVE LOW-LEVELS.
SO THIS DOESN'T REPRESENT A MASS
MOVEMENT.
IT SEEMS LIKE MORE PSEUDOMILITIA
ACTIVITY THAN A GENUINE
REBELLION.
>> Woodruff: SO NO SENSE THIS
WILL SPREAD TO OTHER PARTS OF
THE WEST?
>> I CERTAINLY HAVE NOT HEARD
THAT IN MY VISITS OUT THERE.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TALK ABOUTR M
TONIGHT, MARK, AND THAT'S
UKRAINE, THE SURPRISE DEAL
REACHED YESTERDAY IN GENEVA
BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES,
RUSSIA, UKRAINE AND THE EUROPEAN
UNION, TRYING TO DEFUSE WHAT'S
BEEN GOING ON THERE.
TODAY, THE REPORTING IS ALL
ABOUT THESE PROTESTERS IN THE
EASTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY
SAYING WE'RE NOT GOING ANYWHERE.
WHERE IS THIS HEADED?
>> I HONESTLY DON'T KNOW, JUDY.
I WILL SAY THAT IT APPEARS THAT
MR. PUTIN'S PLAN AND THE
IAAN IS TO PARTITION
THE UKRAINE AND THIS CERTAINLY,
THEY CALL IT GENERALIZATION, BUT
IT IS A PARTITION OF -- AN
EVENTUAL PARTITION OF SORTS.
WHETHER IT'S TO DESTABILIZE OR
DELEGITIMIZE THE ELECTIONS OF
MAY 25, WE DON'T KNOW, BUT PUTIN
MADE A STATEMENT SAYING RUSSIA'S
FEDERATION COUNCIL HAS PROVIDED
THE PRESIDENT WITH THE RIGHT TO
DEPLOY ARMED FORCES IN UKRAINE.
ANYBODY WHO TALKS ABOUT HIMSELF
IN THE THIRD PERSON MAKES ME
NERVOUS.
HE'S REFERRING TO HIMSELF.
HE SAYS I REALLY HOPE THAT I AM
NOT FORCED TO USE THIS RIGHT.
I THINK THAT, YOU KNOW, THE
SITUATION HAS GROWN MORE SERIOUS
AND WORSE IN THE PAST, AND THE
LACK OF SENSE OF CELEBRATION ON
THE PART OF THE PRESIDENT OR
SECRETARY KERRY IN ANNOUNCING
THE AGREEMENT, THEIR
EXPECTATIONS SEEM TO BE MINIMAL.
>> Woodruff: DAVID, WORSE
DESPITE THE DEAL YESTERDAY?
>> I AGREE WITH MARK.
OBAMA'S REACTION IS REMARKABLE.
THEY HAVE THE PSEUDOBREAKTHROUGH
AND THE PRESIDENT IS REALISTIC
ABOUT IT, THAT IT PROBABLY WON'T
AMOUNT TO MUCH.
WHAT HAPPENS IN GENEVA MAY BE
ABOUT THE TIMING, WHAT HAPPENS
IN DONETSK AND PLACE WHERE IS
MORE MILITIA GROUPS ARE TAKING
OVER BUILDINGS, THAT'S A
SIDESHOW.
THE MAIN SHOW IS IN VLADIMIR
PUTIN'S BRAIN.
IT'S STREAKING THERE'S JUST ONE
PERSON WHO MATTERS HERE AND THE
BRAIN AS HE REVEALED IT EVEN IN
SPEECHES THIS WEEK IS PRETTY
AGGRESSIVE, PRETTY ASSERTIVE
GROWING INCREASINGLY MORE
ASSERTIVE.
IT SEEMS TO ME, IN OUR RESPONSE,
LICY APPARATUS.IATRIST MORE THAN
WE NEED TO UNDERSTAND WHAT IS
GOING TO UPSET AND DISRUPT HIM.
I'M AFRAID THE WAY WE'VE DONE
THE SANCTIONS HAS NOT BEEN WELL
TAILORED TO A PSYCHOLOGICAL
CAMPAIGN AGAINST VLADIMIR PUTIN.
WE'VE RATCHETED IT UP SLOWLY,
HINDERED BY THE EUROPEANS.
BUT BEGINNING SLOWLY, THAT WILL
AROUSE HISCOT, CERTAINLY
NOT RESPECT OR FEAR.
IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN SMARTER IF WE
COULD HAVE DONE IT WITH
EUROPEANS, HAVING ALL THE
SANCTIONS UNLEASHED RIGHT AWAY
TO SEND A SHARP SHOCK AT HIM.
THE NEXT DEBATE IS WHAT TO DO
WITH THE UKRAINIAN ARMY, HOW TO
HELP THEM, LETHAL, NON-LETHAL
AID, BUT SOMEHOW GETTING INSIDE
HIS HEAD, WHICH IS THE MAIN
ARENA, SE
CRUCIAL TASK BOOF WOOF MARK, GO
AHEAD.
>> JUST ONE POINT.
I GUESS WHERE I DISAGREE WITH
DAVID IS ON THE SANCTIONS.
YOU HAVE TO BRING THE RUSSIANS
ALONG -- I'M SORRY -- THE
EUROPEANS ALONG.
WE ARE DEALING HERE AND I GIVE
THE PRESIDENT CREDIT THAT HE HAS
NOT DONE THE MACHO SWAGGER TO
MAKE THIS A MATTER OF HIS
MANHOOD OR EARN HIS VARSITY
LETTER.
I THINK THAT HAS BEEN STRONG AND
TO HIS CREDIT.
WE ARE DEALING WITH THE THIRD
LARGEST DEFENSE BUDGET IN THE
WORLD IN THE RUSSIANS.
ONLY THE UNITED STATES AND CHINA
HAS LARGER DEFENSE BUDGETS.
THEY HAVE 270,000 TROOPS, 50,000
OF WHICH ARE AT THE BORDER OF
UKRAINE.
UKRAINE HAS AN ARMY OF 77,000,
JUDY.
IT'S NOT A FIRST-CLASS,
FIRST-RANK.
WE'RE DEALING TO THE POINT IF IT
COMES TO MILITARY CONFRONTATION
OF REALITIES HERE, AND I THINK
WHAT MAY BE A CAUTIONARY NOTE
FOR THE RUSSIANS IS THAT THEY'VE
SEEN US IN IRAQ, FOR EXAMPLE,
WHERE INVASION IS A LOT EASIER
THAN OCCUPATION, AND I THINK,
YOU KNOW, PERHAPS THAT WILL HOLD
THINGS BACK, BUT I AGREE WITH
DAVID THAT THE SANCTIONS HAVE TO
BE ACCELERATED AND INTENSIFIED
AND THAT'S GOING TO REQUIRE THE
COOPERATION AND SOME SUFFERING
ON THE PART OF THE EUROPEANS.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S
INTERESTING YOU POINT IT OUT
ABOUT RUSSIAN DEFENSES BECAUSE A
LOT OF FOCUS IS ON HOW
RELATIVELY WEAK THE RUSSIAN
ECONOMY IS AS COMPARED TO
OTHERS.
BUT DAVID, THE POINT IS IT'S THE
MILITARY ESTABLISHMENT IN RUSSIA
WE SHOULD BE WORRIED ABOUT?
>> YEAH, AMERICAN TROOPS ARE NOT
GOING TO UKRAINE, BUT REALLY
WE'RE TRYING TO DEAL WITH AN
AUTOCRAT'S HEAD, HOW DO YOU GET
HIM TO THINK TWICE?
I THINK THE WAY YOU GET IT IS
NOT THROUGH KIND GESTURES WHERE
HE SAYS, WELL, THEY'RE NOT BEING
TOO PROVOCATIVE, I CAN RELAX,
THEY'RE NOT SCARING ME.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S THE WAY HE
THINKS.
I DO THINK HE THINKS IN A MUCH
MORE BRUTAL TERMS.
NOW, THE DEBATE'S GOING ON
WITHIN THE WHITE HOUSE OR AT
LEAST WAS A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO,
IF WE'RE AGGRESSIVE IN SENDING
AID TO THE UKRAINIAN ARMY, DOES
THAT SEND A SHOCK TO PUTIN OR
DOES IT GIVE HIM A PRETEXT TO
INVADE?
AND I THINK THE ADMINISTRATION
DECIDED MAYBE CORRECTLY THAT
IT'S MORE LIKELY TO GIVE HIM A
PRETEXT TO BE MORE AGGRESSIVE.
NONETHELESS, I THINK HE'S NOT A
GUY WHO'S GOING TO RESPOND TO
OUR OWN SELF-RESTRAINTS, HE'S
GOING TO RESPOND TO A UNIFIED
SORT OF ASSERTIVENESS.
>> Woodruff: ALL KINDS OF
THINGS I WANT TO ASK THE TWO OF
YOU ABOUT IN THE FEW MINUTES
LEFT.
I WANT TO ASK YOU, MARK, ABOUT
THE PULITZER PRIZE THIS WEEK.
AMONG OTHERS, TO THE GUARDIAN
NEWSPAPER, TO "THE WASHINGTON
POST" FOR THE REPORTING THEY DID
ON THE NATIONAL SECURITY LEAKS
FROM EDWARD SNOWDEN.
I GUESS MY QUESTION IS WHAT WAS
YOUR REACTION?
DID YOU SEE HONORING THE
NEWSPAPER THE SAME AS HONORING
THE MAN WHO DELIVERED THE LEAKS?
>> NO.
>> Woodruff: WHO'S BEEN SEEN
AS BOTH A TRAITOR AND HERO?
>> NO THE PULITZER AWARD GOES TO
THE DOMINANT, MOST IMPORTANT
NEWS STORY IN COVERAGE, IN
REPORTING, AND I THINK IT'S HARD
TO ARGUE THIS WASN'T THE MOST
IMPORTANT NEWS STORY AND THE
REPORTING DONE ON IT WAS QUITE
PROFESSIONAL.
THE FACT THAT, ALONG WIT, COMES
EDWARD SNOWDEN IS IN NO WAY, IN
MY JUDGMENT, RECOGNITION OF HIM
AS AN HEROIC FIGURE.
HE WAS CENTRAL TO IT.
HE WAS INDISPENSABLE TO IT.
BUT WE SAW THE PART HE PLAYED
YESTERDAY IN MR. PUTIN'S PRESS
CONFERENCE IN RUSSIA.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S WHY --
-- HE CERTAINLY DID NOT RISE
TO HEROIC STATUS, I WOULDN'T
SAY, IN THAT CAPACITY.
>> Woodruff: DAVID?
ELL, YOU KNOW, I FIND HIM
REPELLANT AS SOMEBODY TALKED
ABOUT INTERNAL CONVERSATIONS IN
THE "NewsHour" AT THE "NEW
YORK TIMES" AND BROADCAST THEM,
I WOULD FIND THAT PERSON
REPELLANT AND DOUBLY SO WHEN
IT'S NATIONAL SECURITY SECRETS
WHEN HE'S SWORN AN OATH TO DO
SO.
SO I'M NO FAN OF HIM.
AS FOR PRESS COVERAGE AND
WHETHER IT DESERVES RECOGNITION,
I HAVE COMPLICATED VIEWS.
I'M A LITTLE MADE NERVOUS BY THE
FACT THEY REALLY BENEFIT BY WHAT
I THINK WAS A REEL PELLANT,
UNPATRIOTIC ACT.
ON THE OTHER HAND, I MUST BE
HONEST ABOUT WHAT WE DO IN THE
MEDIA.
A LOT OF OUR LEAKS AND BEST
STORIES COME FROM PEOPLE WHO ARE
BETRAYING CONFIDENCE, FROM
SOMEONE WHO'S VEE LATING OATH,EG
OF WHAT GOES ON.
SO WE LIVE IN A BUSINESS WHERE
WE TRY TO EXPOSE THE TRUTH BUT
SOMETIMES, AS JANET MALCOLM SAID
YEARS AGO, WE DO IT BY RELYING
ON BETRAYAL OR SOME VIOLATED
CONFIDENCE, WE DO IT SOMETIMES
BY BEING NOT TOTALLY HONEST WITH
THE PEOPLE WE'RE DEALING WITH,
NOT BEING DISMONTHS BUT BY SORT
OF SEDUCING INFORMATION OUT OF
PEOPLE.
AND SO THIS IS A MORALLY
COMPLICATED BUSINESS WE'RE IN
LIKE MOST BUSINESSES, AND I
DON'T HAVE TOTAL PROBLEM WITH
WHAT "THE WASHINGTON POST" DID
BUT DON'T HAVE TOTAL COMFORT
WITH IT EITHER.
>> Woodruff: YOU WERE SAYING
YES.
>> NO, I UNDERSTAND, I THINK
DAVID'S POINT IS WELL MADE AND
WELL TAKEN, AND I DON'T KNOW HOW
YOU MAKE HIM ESSENTIAL TO THE
STORY --
>> Woodruff: SNOWDEN.
HAT HE'S DONE IS HE MADE
HIMSELF ACCOUNTABLE FOR IT.
HE DID BREAK THE LAW, BROKE THE
OATH THAT HE TOOK AND HAS NOT
ACCEPTED THE CONSEQUENCES AND
REFUSES TO DO SO.
BUT I THINK IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO
DENY THAT IT STARTED AND THE
PRESIDENT ACKNOWLEDGED THIS, A
MUCH-NEEDED, LONG-OVERDUE
CONVERSATION, THAT I THINK WE'RE
FINALLY GOING TO SEE AS A
CONSEQUENCE OF THESE STORIES
SOME ELEMENT AND SOME URGENCY IN
JUDICIAL REVIEW, IN
CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF WHAT'S
BEEN GOING ON, AND WE FOUND OUT
THAT THIS N.S.A. APPARENTLY WAS
COLLECTING A LOT OF INFORMATION,
SIMPLY COULD COLLECT A LOT OF
INFORMATION.
>> US THE TRUE UH THAT SOMETIMES
GOOD PEOPLE PRODUCE GOOD
OUTCOMES AND SOMETIME VICE VERS.
>> Woodruff: IN YOUR CASE, TWO
PEOPLE DO TWO GOOD OUTCOMES.
I'VE REFRIDAY.
MARK SHIELDS, DAVID BROOKS, WE
THANK YOU BOTH.
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, WE
LOOK AT THE SEMINAL WORK AND THE
LIFE OF AUTHOR AND NOBEL
LAUREATE GABRIEL GARCIA MARQUEZ.
HARI JOINS US AGAIN FROM OUR NEW
YORK STUDIO FOR THIS
APPRECIATION.
>> Sreenivasan: HIS POETIC WORDS
EVOKED LOVE AND LONGING, FANTASY
AND FATALISM, AND WORLDWIDE
ADMIRATION.
GABRIEL GARCIA MARQUEZ WAS THE
MOST POPULAR SPANISH-LANGUAGE
AUTHOR SINCE MIGUEL DE CERVANTES
IN THE 17TH CENTURY, OUTSELLING
ALL OTHER SPANISH LITERATURE
EXCEPT THE BIBLE.
HIS NOVELS AND SHORT STORIES
EXPOSED MILLIONS TO LATIN
AMERICAN LIFE, AND TO
"MAGICAL REALISM", A STYLE HE
DISCUSSED IN AN INTERVIEW SOME
YEARS AGO.
>> ( translated ): I LIVED IN A
SUPERNATURAL WORLD, A FANTASTIC
WORLD WHERE EVERYTHING WAS
POSSIBLE, WHERE THE MOSTWONDERFY
THINGS.
>> Sreenivasan: GARCIA MARQUEZ
FIRST GAINED FAME WITH THE EPIC
NOVEL "ONE HUNDRED YEARS OF
SOLITUDE," PUBLISHED IN 1967.
IT SOLD MORE THAN 50 MILLION
COPIES WORLDWIDE.
HIS BIRTHPLACE OL
SMALL TOWN OF ARACATACA, WAS THE
INSPIRATION FOR THE VILLAGE
DEPICTED IN THE BOOK.
BIOGRAPHER GERALD MARTIN.
>> ( translated ): THE COLOMBIAN
GOVERNMENT CREATED A SYSTEM OF
NATIONAL HIGH SCHOOLS AND
SCHOLARSHIPS FOR DISADVANTAGED
STUDENTS.
GARCIA MARQUEZ WON A SCHOLARSHIP
AND LEAPT THROUGH THAT WINDOW OF
OPPORTUNITY A LITTLE BIT LIKE
ALICE ENTERING INTO WONDERLAND
OR INTO MAGICAL REALISM.
>> Sreenivasan: THE AUTHOR'S
OTHER BELOVED CLASSICS INCLUDE
"LOVE IN THE TIME OF CHOLERA",
"AUTUMN OF THE PATRIARCH", AND
"CHRONICLE OF A DEATH FORETOLD".
AND IN 1982, HIS COLLECTIVE BODY
OF WORK WON HIM THE NOBEL PRIZE
FOR LITERATURE.
GARCIA MARQUEZ WAS ALSO KNOWN
FOR HIS LEFTIST POLITICS, AND
FOS.
VISA OVER HIS SUPPORT OF FIDEL
CASTRO AND CRITICISM OF U.S.
MILITARY INTERVENTIONS IN
VIETNAM AND CHILE.
BUT LAST NIGHT, FELLOW AUTHORS,
INCLUDING MEXICAN WRITER JORGE
HERNANDEZ, SAID HIS LITERARY
CONTRIBUTIONS WILL BE WHAT'S
REMEMBERED.
>> ( translated ): IT'S A SAD
DAY, BUT IT'S THE FIRST DAY OF
THE FIRST 100 YEARS OF AN
INFINITE SOLITUDE THAT WE ALL
SHARE.
NO MATTER WHAT LANGUAGE OR WHAT
COUNTRY, WE MUST EMBRACE ALL OF
HIS MILLIONS OF READERS.
NOT JUST TODAY, BUT IN FIVE
CENTURIES, PEOPLE WILL CONTINUE
TO SPEAK OF GABRIEL GARCIA
MARQUEZ AND THE LITERATURE HE
GAVE US.
>> Sreenivasan: GABRIEL GARCIA
MARQUEZ WAS 87 YEARS OLD.
WE TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT THE
LIFE AND LITERATURE OF GABRIEL
GARCIA MARQUEZ WITH WILLIAM
KENNEDY.
HE'S A JOURNALIST, PULITZER
PRIZE-WINNING AUTHOR OF THE
"ALBANY CYCLE" NOVELS, AND WAS A
LONG-TIME ACQUAINTANCE OF GARCIA
MARQUEZ.
FOR THE UNINITIATED, WHAT IS IT
ABOUT HIS WORK THAT RESONATED SO
MUCH FIRST WITH LATIN AMERICANS
AND THEN WITH THE REST OF THE
WORLD?
>> I DON'T KNOW.
HE HAD THE SECRET, YOU KNOW.
HE FOUND THE SECRET OF HOW TO
TELL THE STORY OF THE HUMAN RACE
IN A SINGLE BOOK, THE GREAT
LATIN AMERICAN NOVEL BECAME ONE
OF THE GREAT WORLD NOVELS OF ALL
TIME, AND HE DID IT WITH
ACCESSIBILITY.
IT WASN'T COMPLEX OR EXALTED --
IT WAS EXALTED PROSE BUT EXALTED
IN AN ACCESSIBLE WAY, BEAUTIFUL
WRITING, FUNNY, GREAT WIT, AND
VERY PROFOUND INSIGHTS INTO WHAT
CONSTITUTES THE FAMILY AND THE
FAMILY OF MAN, AND HE DID IT
WITH SUCH FINESSE AND SUCH
CONTROL.
>> Sreenivasan: SPEAKING OF
100 YEARS OF SOLITUDE, YOU WERE
ONE TO HAVE THE FIRST REVIEWERS
AND QUOTED AS SAYING THE FIRST
PIECE OF LIT CHIEWRD SINCE THE
BOOK OF GENESIS THAT SHOULD BE
REQUIRED READING FOR THE ENTIRE
HUMAN RACE.
THAT IS HIGH PRAISE.
WHY?
>> WELL, I KEPT READING THE BACK
AND I'D SAY TO MYSELF, THIS IS A
CLASSIC WORK.
AND IT KEPT GOING ON.
AND I WOULD SAY, BY GOD, IT'S AN
ABUNDANCE OF IT, IT JUST DOESN'T
END.
IT'S CLASSIC.
AND WHEN I WAS FINISHED WITH IT,
I WAS BAFFLED AS TO HOW TO
REVIEW IT BECAUSE IT WAS SO
PHENOMENALLY IMPRESSIVE TO ME.
THE STORY WAS SO COMPLEX, AND IT
TAKES YOU OVER, YOU KNOW, 100
YEARS IN A FAMILY, AND IN A
SOCIETY THAT STANDS FOR
EVERYTHING.
AND IT WAS A BELIEVABLE,
CREDIBLE STORY.
HE TURNED THE FABLES, THE MYTHS
OF OUR LIVES AND AMIDST IT THE
GREEK MYTHS, THE IRISH MYTHS,
THE SPANISH MYTHS AND MADE IT
EVERYDAY CURRENCY IN THE LIVES
OF THESE PEOPLE THAT HE
INVENTED.
IT WASN'T MYSTICAL.
IT WASN'T IMPROBABLE.
IT WASN'T A FAIRYTALE.
IT WAS THE GHOST WALKED, THE
GHOSTS DISAPPEAR, COME BACK,
GROW OLD, AND IT WAS JUST A VERY
NATURAL PROGRESSION OF LIFE AND
TOLD IN THESE WONDERFUL
ANECDOTES THAT HE STRUNG
TOGETHER TO CREATE THIS WORLD
AND THIS DIAZ, IT
WAS LIKE NOTHING ELSE.
I MEAN, WHEN YOU READ THE BOOK,
YOU'VE NEVER READ A BOOK LIKE
THIS BEFORE.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU KNEW HIM
PERSONALLY AS A FRIEND.
WHAT WAS HE LIKE A PERSON?
WHAT WAS IT LIKE TO HANG OUT
WITH HIM?
>> WELL, IT WAS FUN.
HE WAS A GREAT
CONVERSATIONALIST.
HE WAS A STORY TELLER.
EVERYTHING HE TOLD HAD A FUNNY
TWIST TO IT.
HE HAD A GREAT WIT, AND HE WAS A
GREAT GUY.
BUT HE WAS ALSO -- HE WOULDN'T
MONOPOLIZE THE CONVERSATION
EXCEPT IF YOU WANTED HIM TO.
HE WAS AN EASY-GOING
CONVERSATIONALIST, AND THEN A
GREAT PRESENCE.
>> Sreenivasan: WILLIAM
KENNEDY, THANKS SO MUCH FOR YOUR
RECOLLECTIONS.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS REFUSED
TO GIVE UP THEIR WEAPONS OR THE
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS THEY'VE
SEIZED ACROSS EASTERN UKRAINE.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT ANNOUNCED A
NEW DELAY IN APPROVING THE
KEYSTONE OIL PIPELINE PROJECT.
ENVIRONMENTAL GROUPS PRAISED THE
MOVE; REPUBLICANS, INCLUDING
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER, WERE
HARSHLY CRITICAL.
AND IN WHAT MAY BE THE DEADLIEST
SINGLE INCIDENT ON MOUNT
EVEREST, AN AVALANCHE KILLED A
DOZEN SHERPA GUIDES.
FOUR OTHERS WERE MISSING.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, A GROUP OF STUDENTS IN
DETROIT ARE PLANNING TO MAKE A
TRIP TO MICHIGAN'S CAPITAL TO
PROTEST A "ZERO TOLERANCE"
APPROACH TO SCHOOL DISCIPLINE.
THAT MIGHT NOT SEEM LIKE MUCH OF
AN UNDERTAKING, BUT THEY'RE
MAKING THE 90-MILE TREK ON FOOT.
IT'S PART OF A THREE-DAY MARCH
CALLED "YOUTH VOICE."
READ ABOUT THAT ON OUR
"RUNDOWN."
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM OUR PBS
COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS  PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: WE ARE GOING DEEP ON
THE CRY VIES IN UKRAINE, ON THE
POLITICS OF HEALTHCARE AND THE
POLITICS OF MONEY AND ON THE
TROUBLING FACE OF DOMESTIC
TERRORISM.
THAT'S LATER TONIGHT ON
"WASHINGTON WEEK."
>> Woodruff: ON TOMORROW'S
EDITION OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
CORRESPONDENT DR. EMILY SENAY
REPORTS ON A GROUNDBREAKING NEW
CLASS OF DRUGS, AND WHY THEY
COST MORE IN THE U.S. THAN
ELSEWHERE IN THE WORLD.
PHILLIP DeLUCA FOUND OUT HIS
BONE MARROW WASN'T PRODUCING
ENOUGH NORMAL RED BLOOD CELLS
AND IF THE LEVELS SLIPPED TOO
LOW, IT COULD BE
LIFE-THREATENING.
DeLUCA'S MEDICATION PROCRIT IS
KNOWN AS A BIOLOGIC, A
RELATIVELY YOUNG AND
REVOLUTIONARY CLASS OF DRUGS.
THE BLO MEDICATION HELPED
BUT IS ALSO EXTREMELY EXPENSIVE.
>> I WAS SHOCKED.
I HAD NO IDEA THAT THIS COULD
COST THIS MUCH.
>> Reporter: WHY IS IT SO
EXPENSIVE?
SOME CRITICS SAY BECAUSE THERE'S
NO SYSTEM IN PLACE IN THIS
COUNTRY THAT WOULD MAKE GENERIC
BIOLOGICS AVAILABLE, BUT THEY
ARE SOLD OVERSEAS AND AT A MUCH
LOWER PRICE AND HAVE BEEN FOR
NEARLY EIGHT YEARS.
THERE THEY ARE
ASBIOSIMILARS.
>> Woodruff: AND WE'LL BE BACK,
RIGHT HERE, ON MONDAY, WITH A
CONVERSATION WITH FORMER SUPREME
COURT JUSTICE JOHN PAUL STEVENS
ON HIS PROPOSED CHANGES TO THE
CONSTITUTION.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.